>> Kyle Simpson: Let’s
talk about hoisting.
How many of you have heard
the phrase hoisting before?
Okay, it is thrown around or has been
thrown around JavaScript for a long time.
As well, variables hoist, and
hoisting this and hoisting that.
Until recently,
that is within the last year or two,
the word hoist literally did not even
appear in the JavaScript specification.
Because it turns out that hoisting
is not actually a real thing.
The JavaScript engine does not hoist,
it does not move things around
the way it is suggested with hoisting.
Hoisting is a metaphor
that we have made up.
It is a language convention
that we have made up, and
I mean English language convention.
It is an english language convention
that we have made up to discuss
the idea of lexical scope, without
thinking about lexical scope, okay?
And I'll show you why it doesn't actually
exist, why it's really not even possible
for it to exist with this very simple
piece of code, it only takes a few lines.
If you try to explain what
happens with line one, and
we use the lexical scope discussion
like we already talked about.
Then you would first pass through
this as the compiler, and
then you would pass through
it as an execution.
But what people don't like doing,
it seems,
is thinking about this
in terms of two passes.
People seem to be wanting to be stuck
on passing through it just once.
Two passes seems more confusing,
just give me an explanation
that works with a single pass.
Whether it's true or not,
I just want a more convenient explanation.
And that's where hoisting comes from.
Cuz hoisting says, well,
we could explain what really happens here,
if there was this magical
behavior called hoisting.
Which was that any time JavaScript's
execution engine entered a scope,
it magically looked ahead and
found all of the declarations wherever
they were in that scope, and
made variables for them, right?
So it's as if the JavaScript engine goes
and finds those variable declarations and
moves them to the top of
the scope before execution.
That's literally how
hoisting is described.
That's not what actually happens.
JavaScript does not actually reorganize
your code by moving the vars up
to the top, and here is how I can prove
to you that that's not what happens.
Because, how would that magical
look ahead actually work?
How would it magically somehow when
it enters the piece of code for
the very first time on the very first
pass, magically be able to at it and
only find that declarations?
You certainly can't use regular
expressions for that, because JavaScript
is a non-regular language so
regular expressions aren't good enough.
So, how are you going to figure
out where all the vars are?
You're gonna do some very
sophisticated processing
on the tokens that come later in that
block until you find the end of the block.
And then any of those places where
a declaration could have occurred,
then you can pull those out, and you could
theoretically rearrange and move those.
And guess what that magical,
fancy processing would be called?
Parsing, okay?
That's called parsing.
If you wanna find the variable
declarations further down in the block,
the only way you can do
that is with parsing.
So hoisting isn't really a thing, it is a
shorthand, a convention that we can use to
try to describe something without needing
to get into the nitty-gritty details.
I'm not saying that it is a bad thing but
what has been rather prevalent,
as I have seen, in, I can't even
count how many Stack Overflow.
When people asks questions about why
JavaScript is doing something and
it seems like it's weird or broken,
and they post some code example.
And then somebody says, well,
it's because of the hoisting, and
then this person says, Okay.
And then it turns out
that they're just wrong.
This may be surprising to you, but
did you know that stuff is
wrong on Stack Overflow?
>> Speaker 1: [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, shocking,
I should have given you warning
before dropping that knowledge bomb.
This is a fact, there are posts on
Stack Overflow where people have
asked questions about my books,
the You Don't Know JS books.
And on one of those posts, many of them,
but on one of these posts that I found,
this person said,
what does Kyle mean when, and
he quoted some passage that I
was talking about in my book.
I try as much as possible on Stack
Overflow to go in and check for these, but
there's too many and I have lost
track of triaging questions on,
that have been tagged with
You Don't Know JS, or YDKJS.
So, I ran across this post-one time,
and so here's this question.
And I'm the one that wrote the book,
my name is on the book.
There is nobody on the planet that is more
authoritative on the question of what did
I mean than me.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Can we agree with that?
>> Speaker 2: Good point, there.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
Whether I'm wrong about JavaScript
is a separate issue, but
what I mean,
I'm the authoritative on the spec, okay?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Somebody else answered
the question, and
they were completely wrong.
Just 100% totally wrong.
I don't feel, I'm not like down on
that person, people make mistakes,
they don't understand stuff.
But here's what was so demoralizing, the
green check mark and over 4000 uploads.
Even when I post my little answer
there is now like 17 uploads,
it's never going to get seen by anybody.
So you can't always trust
what you read on Soccer List.
Sorry for that little digression, okay?
>> Speaker 3: We can help you.
We can all upvote you.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
we can get 100 more votes [LAUGH].
It's not gonna get me to 4000.
But anyway, so, the point that I was
making is there's lots of questions where
people will ask questions about this
whole hoisting thing, and they'll say I'm
frustrated because this doesn't seem
to work the right way or what am I.
And somebody will answer it and
they'll use hoisting, and
it will perpetuate inaccuracy.
It is not that hoisting is unhelpful
to you, but when you use hoisting, and
you don't know the nuances, and
you don't know what's actually happening,
then you actually get misled
into thinking the wrong thing.
Which is why I first taught
you ow it really works, and
how we're circling back to the more
shorthand definition, because armed with
both of those, you can make sure in
the future that you don't get confused.
But armed only with hoisting,
it only takes a few lines of code for
me to confuse a developer.
So it is not the case
that these get moved up,
just like it is not the case
that functions get reassigned.
This code, if we were trying
to figure out what it did,
we would say according to hoisting,
that this is what it did.
It moved the function first, and then
it moved the variable declaration, and
then it executed.
For the exact same reason it doesn't lose
variables, it doesn't lose functions.
It handle them during the first pass,
and then it execute.
There is, however, and important
distinction to be made here on this slide,
which is the difference between a function
declaration and a function expression.
A number of you were asking when we were
talking about error functions, hey well,
isn't it okay if I just assign my favorite
loving error function to a variable?
Is it okay?
Yes.
Will it work?
It depends.
In this particular example, we have the
functions having to move to the top, but
notice what happened to
the function assignment on line 9,
it's still only happens on line 9.
Which means that line seven is
going to throw a type error.
So in other words,
to use the form of function where you only
assign it to properties or variables,
you have to have all of your functions
defined before you call them.
Some people like that.
As a matter of fact, for probably more
than 15 years of my development career,
I did exactly that.
Probably because I have roots
in programming languages like C.
I got used to the habit of having
all my functions at the top, and
all my executable code at the bottom.
And one day, about five, six years ago,
maybe almost seven years ago at this
point, it just dawned on my one day, why
am I putting all my functions at the top,
and then every time I open up this file,
I've gotta scroll 3,000 lines before
I can find my executable code?
Why can't I just put that code at the top,
so
it's right there when I open up the file?
And it's real obvious what the code does.
If I need to look at the functions,
they're still there, but
I wanna find the executable code easily.
And finding it at the bottom is a lot
of harder than finding it at the top.
And so I just started putting all
the functions at the bottom of any scope.
And not only do I do that in the top
scope, but I also do that within scopes.
I put the executable code at the top, and
I put my function
declarations at the bottom.
And I take advantage of
the fact that functions hoist.
They hoist, right?
They are taken at compile time and
defined in such a way so
that they can be used even earlier in
the scope than when they've been declared.
So there are many, many people that
say that JavaScript's hoisting
mechanism is a bad, poorly designed,
buggy part of the system.
And it's why JavaScript doesn't qualify
as a lexically scoped language because of
hoisting, and we shouldn't use it,
and shouldn't rely upon it.
And as with most things, it kinda depends,
it depend on your perspective of
what you're trying to accomplish.
It is sometimes the case
that hoisting is bad, and
sometimes the case I
think it's quite useful.